# Grafonnet

Jsonnet library for generating Grafana dashboards.

# Maturity

> _The code in this repository should be considered experimental. Documentation is only
available alongside the code. It comes with no support, but we are keen to receive
feedback on the product and suggestions on how to improve it, though we cannot commit
to resolution of any particular issue. No SLAs are available. It is not meant to be used
in production environments, and the risks are unknown/high._

Below you can find the full definition of Experimental feature in Grafana Labs:

> Projects and features in the Experimental stage are supported only by the Engineering
teams; on-call support is not available. Documentation is either limited or not provided
outside of code comments. No SLA is provided.
>
> Experimental projects or features are primarily intended for open source engineers who
want to participate in ensuring systems stability, and to gain consensus and approval
for open source governance projects.
>
> Projects and features in the Experimental phase are not meant to be used in production
environments, and the risks are unknown/high.

## Introduction
This library depends on JSON Schemas generated by [Grok](https://github.com/grafana/grok),
these schemas are generated directly from the Grafana repository to ensure Grafonnet can
keep up with Grafana development.

Grafonnet is the spiritual successor of [grafonnet-lib](https://github.com/grafana/grafonnet-lib).
As grafonnet-lib was manually written, it had a hard time to keep up with Grafana
development, this resulted in it being under-maintained. Besides that, it also came with
a performance penalty in jsonnet as it used the builder pattern, although visually
appealing it becomes very slow for environments that need to manage many dashboards.

## Requirements

Grafonnet uses the [Jsonnet](https://jsonnet.org/) programming language.

The library can be installed with [jsonnet-bundler](https://github.com/jsonnet-bundler/jsonnet-bundler/).

## Install

```console
jb install github.com/grafana/grafonnet/gen/grafonnet-latest@main
```

## Usage

```jsonnet
// dashboard.jsonnet
local grafonnet = import 'github.com/grafana/grafonnet/gen/grafonnet-latest/main.libsonnet';

grafonnet.dashboard.new('My Dashboard')
```

```console
jsonnet -J vendor dashboard.jsonnet
```

## Development

`make generate` uses `generate.jsonnet` to create Jsonnet libraries for each version in
`gen/<version>/`, it also creates `gen/grafonnet-latest/` which refers to the newest
version. These Jsonnet libraries depend on the JSON Schemas from Grok and `grafonnet-base/`.

The `grafonnet-base` library provides the logic to convert JSON Schemas to a runtime
library and adds veneer on top. The veneer is a thin layer on top of the raw library to
improve the user experience.
